docs: tw798 (#3270)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: docs/partials/_glossary-partial.mdx

### Address Alias {#address-alias}

> An address deterministically generated from a parent chain contract address used on child chain to safely identify the source of an parent-to-child chain message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An address deterministically generated from a parent chain contract address used on child chain to safely identify the source of a parent-to-child chain message.
```

### Adjustment window {#adjustment-window}

> Window during which the gas pricing algorithm measures the transaction backlog. For example, there can be a gas target of 10Mgas/s over ten minutes. That means the price will only increase if the average demand is over 10Mgas/s for that ten minute window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Window during which the gas pricing algorithm measures the transaction backlog. For example, there can be a gas target of 10Mgas/s over ten minutes. That means the price will only increase if the average demand is over 10Mgas/s for that ten-minute window.
```

### Arbified Token List {#arbified-token-list}

> A token list that conforms to [Uniswap's token list specification](https://github.com/Uniswap/token-lists); Arbified lists are generated by inputting externally maintained list ([i.e., coinmarketcap's list](https://api.coinmarketcap.com/data-api/v3/uniswap/all.json)) and outputting a list that includes all of the instances of token contracts on the Arbitrum chain bridged via the canonical [Arbitrum Token Bridge](/intro/glossary#arb-token-bridge) from tokens on the input list. (See code [here](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/arbitrum-token-lists).)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A token list that conforms to [Uniswap's token list specification](https://github.com/Uniswap/token-lists); Arbified lists are generated by inputting externally maintained list ([that is, coinmarketcap's list](https://api.coinmarketcap.com/data-api/v3/uniswap/all.json)) and outputting a list that includes all of the instances of token contracts on the Arbitrum chain bridged via the canonical [Arbitrum Token Bridge](/intro/glossary#arb-token-bridge) from tokens on the input list. (See the [arbitrum-token-lists source code](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/arbitrum-token-lists).)
```

### Arbitrum {#arbitrum}

> Arbitrum is the finance-native blockchain platform providing infrastructure for applications, tokenization, and dedicated blockchains. The platform includes Arbitrum One, Arbitrum Nova, Arbitrum chains, Nitro, Stylus, and supporting protocols.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Arbitrum is the finance-native platform providing infrastructure for applications, tokenization, and dedicated chains. The platform includes Arbitrum One, Arbitrum Nova, Arbitrum chains, Nitro, Stylus, and supporting protocols.
```

### Arbitrum Bridge UI {#arbitrum-bridge-ui}

> Web application built and maintained by [Offchain Labs](/intro/glossary#offchain-labs) for user-interactions with the [Arbitrum Token Bridge](/intro/glossary#arb-token-bridge); visit it [here](https://bridge.arbitrum.io/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Web application built and maintained by [Offchain Labs](/intro/glossary#offchain-labs) for user-interactions with the [Arbitrum Token Bridge](/intro/glossary#arb-token-bridge); visit the [Arbitrum Bridge](https://bridge.arbitrum.io/).
```

### Autonomous Auctioneer {#autonomous-auctioneer}

> A protocol that receives bids from [Timeboost](/intro/glossary#timeboost) participants, processes and validates bids, and then posts the top valid bid (or top two valid bids in the case of a tie) to the [Auction Contract](/intro/glossary#auction-contract) to resolve the on going Timeboost auction. The autonomous auctioneer, for a given chain, is provisioned and deployed by an entity designated by the chain's owner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A protocol that receives bids from [Timeboost](/intro/glossary#timeboost) participants, processes and validates bids, and then posts the top valid bid (or top two valid bids in the case of a tie) to the [Auction Contract](/intro/glossary#auction-contract) to resolve the ongoing Timeboost auction. The autonomous auctioneer, for a given chain, is provisioned and deployed by an entity designated by the chain's owner.
```

### Layer 1 (L1) {#layer-1-l1}

L1, or Layer 1, refers to the underlying blockchain responsible for maintaining the integrity of the distributed ledger. It is responsible for maintaining the integrity of the distributed ledger and executing smart contracts. Contains both Ethereum's execution layer and consensus layer.

In the context of Arbitrum One and Nova, L1 is the main Ethereum blockchain (Mainnet), and Arbitrum is a Layer 2 platform built on top of this base (Ethereum) layer.

However, any EVM-compatible blockchain can be an L1 to an Arbitrum chain.

### Layer 2 (L2) {#layer-2-l2}

An L2, or Layer 2, is a trustless scaling solution built on top of Ethereum's Layer 1 (L1) base protocol.

Arbitrum is a Layer 2 platform that increases throughput and reduces the cost of transactions on Ethereum's (L1) without introducing additional trust assumptions. It does that by executing some computation offchain and batch-posting transactions on the underlying Layer 1 chain (Ethereum for Arbitrum One/Nova).

### Layer 3 (L3) {#layer-3-l3}

> An Arbitrum chain whose core contract reside on an Arbitrum [Layer 2 (L2)](/intro/glossary#layer-2-l2) chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Arbitrum chain whose core contracts reside on an Arbitrum [Layer 2 (L2)](/intro/glossary#layer-2-l2) chain.
```

### MultiVM {#multivm}

> MultiVM refers Arbitrum's ability to support multiple virtual machines (VMs). Specifically, Arbitrum Stylus introduces a WebAssembly (WASM)-based virtual machine alongside the traditional Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM). This means developers can write smart contracts in languages like Rust, C, or C++ (compiled to WASM) or continue using Solidity for the EVM, and both types of contracts can interact on the same chain. This approach preserves EVM compatibility while enabling more efficient execution and access to a broader set of programming languages and libraries[(1)](https://docs.arbitrum.io/stylus/concepts/how-it-works)[(2)](https://docs.arbitrum.io/launch-arbitrum-chain/partials/config-other-language-support).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MultiVM refers to Arbitrum's ability to support multiple virtual machines (VMs). Specifically, Arbitrum Stylus introduces a WebAssembly (WASM)-based virtual machine alongside the traditional Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM). This means developers can write smart contracts in languages like Rust, C, or C++ (compiled to WASM) or continue using Solidity for the EVM, and both types of contracts can interact on the same chain. This approach preserves EVM compatibility while enabling more efficient execution and access to a broader set of programming languages and libraries[(1)](https://docs.arbitrum.io/stylus/concepts/how-it-works)[(2)](https://docs.arbitrum.io/launch-arbitrum-chain/partials/config-other-language-support).
```

### Token Gateway {#token-gateway}

> A pair of contracts in the token bridge—one on the [Parent chain](/intro/glossary#parent-chain) , one on the [Child chain](/intro/glossary#child-chain)—that provide a particular mechanism for handling the transfer of tokens between layers. Token gateways currently active in the bridge include the [`StandardERC20` gateway](/intro/glossary#standarderc20-gateway) , the [Generic-Custom Gateway](/intro/glossary#genericcustom-gateway) , and the [**WETH** Gateway](/intro/glossary#weth-gateway).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A pair of contracts in the token bridge—one on the [Parent chain](/intro/glossary#parent-chain), one on the [Child chain](/intro/glossary#child-chain)—that provide a particular mechanism for handling the transfer of tokens between chains. Token gateways currently active in the bridge include the [`StandardERC20` gateway](/intro/glossary#standarderc20-gateway), the [Generic-Custom Gateway](/intro/glossary#genericcustom-gateway), and the [**WETH** Gateway](/intro/glossary#weth-gateway).
```
